URL: https://kainoscapital.com/privacy-policy
TITLE: Privacy Policy | Kainos Capital

BASE CONTENT:
================================================================================
Privacy notice

Last updated:  October 2020

Kainos Capital LP (“Kainos,” “we,” “us,” “our”) is committed to protecting your personal information.  This Privacy Policy describes the personal information that we collect about you, how we use and disclose this information, and the steps we take to protect this information.  For purposes of this Privacy Policy, “personal information” means any information that relates to you as an individual and could reasonably be used to identify you.  This Privacy Policy applies to our collection and use of personal information through this website and any related websites, applications, tools, or platforms (the “Services”), as well as through any other means where a link or reference to this Privacy Policy is provided at the time of collection.  If you are an investor with Kainos, please see our Investor Privacy Statement for more information on how we use your personal information.

Personal Information We Collect
When you access or use the Services, or otherwise interact with us, we may collect certain categories of personal information about you from a variety of sources.

Categories of personal information that we may collect from you directly include:

Contact information (for example, name, phone number, email address, company and title)
Login information, if applicable (for example, username and password)
Communications (for example, submitted inquiries)
Applicant information (for example, education, experience, qualifications, employment history)

Categories of personal information that we may collect automatically when you use the Services include:

Technical information (for example, browser type, IP address, cookies, and operating system)
Usage information (for example, pages visited, search terms entered, and frequency of visits)

Categories of personal information that we may collect from other sources include:

Names and contact information from publicly available sources, such as third-party online platforms (including through public or licensed APIs);
Background check reports from third-party service providers, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and with your consent where required;
Fraud warnings from service providers like identity verification services for our fraud prevention and risk assessment efforts.
In other interactions, we may also collect certain information such as mobile telephone numbers and information as archived through our electronic communications archiving platform, including both email and archived text messaging.

How We Use Your Personal Information
We may use the personal information we collect for the following purposes:

Provide and improve the Services. We may use your personal information to provide and improve the Services or otherwise in connection with the administration of our business and to fulfill our contractual obligations.
Risk mitigation and security. We may use your personal information for risk mitigation and security purposes, including to maintain the privacy and security of our data, to conduct internal audits or investigations, for data security testing and business continuity planning purposes, and to ensure the safety and security of our clients, staff and assets.
Communication and marketing. We may use your personal information to communicate with you about the Services, respond to your questions, or offer you additional products or services.
Comply with the law and exercise our rights. We may use your personal information as reasonably necessary to assess and ensure compliance with applicable laws, legal requirements, and company policies; to protect our assets or to investigate or defend against any claims of illegality or wrongdoing (including to obtain legal advice or to establish, exercise or defend legal rights); and in response to a court order or judicial or other government subpoena or warrant.
Corporate transaction. We may use your personal information in the event we undertake or are involved in or contemplating any merger, acquisition, reorganization, sale of assets, bankruptcy, or insolvency event.
Recruitment and hiring. We may use your personal information to evaluate your candidacy when you apply for a job with us.

We may also aggregate, anonymize, or otherwise de-identify your personal information and use it for any purpose permitted by applicable law.

Use of Cookies
When you use the Services, we may send one or more cookies (which are small text files containing a string of alphanumeric characters) to your computer or mobile device, to help analyze our web page flow, customize our content, measure promotional effectiveness, and promote trust and safety.  You are always free to decline our cookies if your browser permits, although doing so may interfere with your ability to use the Services or certain features of the Services.  We may also use Google Analytics or a similar service that uses cookies to help us analyze how users use the Services.

We do not allow third parties to place cookies to collect information about your online activities over time and across different websites when you access or use the Services.  Currently, various browsers offer a “Do Not Track” option, but there is no standard for how “Do Not Track” should work on commercial websites.  Due to the lack of such standards, this website does not respond to “Do Not Track” consumer browser settings.

How and When We Disclose Your Personal Information
We may disclose your personal information to the following categories of recipients, to be used only for legitimate purposes in keeping with this Privacy Policy:

Group companies and affiliates. We may disclose, share, or transfer your information to any business entity that is part of our corporate family.
Service providers and professional advisors. We may disclose your information to third party vendors who provide services in support of our business operations, such as website development, service optimization, and data analytics.  We may also disclose your personal information to our professional advisors such as our attorneys, accountants, and insurance providers. Some of your personal information may also reside in our electronic communications archiving platforms.
Parties involved in a corporate transaction. We may disclose your information to relevant third parties in the event of a divestiture, merger, consolidation, or asset sale, or in the unlikely event of a bankruptcy.
Law enforcement or other governmental entities. We may disclose your information if required to do so by law or if we believe in good faith that such action is necessary to comply with the law, prevent unlawful activity, defend our rights, or maintain security.
Other third parties with your consent. We may disclose your information to any other third party where you have provided consent to such disclosure.

Security, Retention & Transfer of Personal Information
We have implemented and maintain commercially reasonable and appropriate technical and organizational measures designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and security of your personal information.  Please note, however, that no security measures are perfect or impenetrable.  We therefore cannot guaranty and do not warrant the absolute security of your personal information.  We retain your personal information for no longer than reasonably necessary to fulfill the purposes for which we collected it or to comply with the law, prevent fraud, facilitate an investigation, defend against legal claims, or exercise our legal rights.

Your Choices & Rights
You may decline to share certain information with us, in which case we may not be able to provide to you some of the features and functionality of the Services.  Depending on your location and subject to local law, you may have certain rights with respect to your personal information.  To make a request related to your personal information or otherwise exercise your rights, you may contact us using the contact information provided below.  To fulfill your request, we may require additional information from you.  We will respond to requests within the relevant time periods established by applicable law.

Children’s Privacy
We do not knowingly collect or maintain information from persons under 13 years of age (“children”), and no part of the Services is directed to children.  If you are under 13 years of age, then please do not use or access the Services at any time or in any manner.  If we learn that information has been collected through the Services from children and without verifiable parental consent, then we will take the appropriate steps to delete this information.  If you are a parent or guardian and discover that your child has provided us with personal information without your consent, please contact us using the contact information below to request that we delete the information from our systems.

California Residents
Supplemental to the above, the following additional information pertains to California residents only:

Collection and Use of Personal Information
Categories of personal information collected about California residents in the past twelve months include identifiers, internet or other electronic network activity information, professional or employment-related information, and education information. For examples of specific pieces of personal information collected, please see the “Personal Information We Collect” section above.

Categories of personal information disclosed for a business purpose about California residents in the past twelve months include identifiers, professional or employment-related information, and education information.

Your California Privacy Rights
As a California resident, you have the following rights with respect to your personal information:

You have the right to request to know about personal information collected, disclosed, or sold.
You have the right to request the deletion of personal information.
You have the right to opt-out of the sale of your personal information at any time. Note that we do not sell personal information.

Finally, you have the right to not be discriminated against as a result of exercising your privacy rights.  Accordingly, unless permitted by law, we will not deny you goods or services, charge you different prices or rates for goods or services, provide you a different level or quality of good or services, or suggest you will receive a different price or rate for goods or services or a different level or quality of goods or services.

To exercise your rights, you may contact us using the contact information provided below. To fulfill your request, we may require additional personal information for purposes of verifying your identity.  If you make a request through an authorized agent, we may require additional information to verify your authorization of the agent.

Changes to Privacy Policy
We reserve the right to make changes to this Privacy Policy at any time, without notice.  We will notify you about changes that significantly impact our use of your personal information by placing a prominent notice on this website or by sending you an email.  Please revisit this page periodically to stay aware of any changes to this Privacy Policy.  For the avoidance of doubt, disputes arising hereunder will be resolved in accordance with the Privacy Policy in effect at the time the dispute arose.

Contact Us
Please contact us with any questions, comments or concerns about this Privacy Policy or our use of your personal information by calling the Chief Compliance Officer at 214-740-7300.  You may also contact us by e-mail at contact_us@kainoscapital.com or by mail at:

Kainos Capital LP
Attention: Chief Compliance Officer
2100 McKinney Avenue
Suite 1600
Dallas, Texas 75201

