URL: https://kainoscapital.com/terms-conditions
TITLE: Terms and Conditions | Kainos Capital

BASE CONTENT:
================================================================================
Terms & conditions

This website (“Site”) is intended for the benefit of potential portfolio companies (including such companies’ senior management and ownership) of Kainos (as defined below).  Potential investors in any Kainos fund should reference the separate due diligence portals and other materials that have been prepared for their benefit, and any potential investors use of or reliance upon this Site is specifically disclaimed and limited as further set forth below.

Users should read these Legal Notices and Terms of Use carefully before accessing this Site.

By entering our Site, you acknowledge your agreement with and understanding of the following Legal Notices and Terms of Use pertaining to this Site, including all material on it. These Legal Notices and Terms of Use, which incorporate the Privacy Policy available on our Site, constitute a legally binding agreement between you and Kainos Capital LP (along with its affiliates, “Kainos”, the “Firm”, “we” “us” or “our”) and govern your access and use of the Site.  If you do not accept these Legal Notices and Terms of Use, do not use this Site.  These legal notices may be updated by us at any time and any updates will be effective immediately upon posting unless we indicate otherwise. Your continued use of the Site after any such modifications shall constitute your acceptance of these Legal Notices and Terms of Use in its then current form each time you access the Site.

Securities Disclosure
Kainos is an investment adviser registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Registration does not imply a certain level of skill or training.

You acknowledge that the content of this Site is for general, informational purposes only and is not intended to constitute an offer to sell or buy any securities or promise to undertake or solicit business and may not be relied upon in connection with any offer or sale of securities.  Information about investing in Kainos funds is only available in the form of private placement memoranda and other offering documents.  These documents contain information to help investors evaluate Kainos funds’ investment objectives, risks, fees and expenses, among other factors, before considering an investment.  Further information about Kainos is also available in Form ADV Part 2, filed with the SEC.

Past performance is no guarantee of future results and no representation is made that an investor will or is likely to achieve results that are similar to those of Kainos’ previous funds or investments.

We are not utilizing the Site to provide investment or other advice, and nothing on the Site is to be deemed a recommendation that you buy, sell or hold any security or other investment or that you pursue any investment style or strategy. Nothing on this Site is intended to be, and you should not consider anything on the Site to be, investment, accounting, tax or legal advice.  If you would like investment, accounting, tax or legal advice, you should consult with your own advisors with respect to your individual circumstances and needs. You are solely responsible for evaluating the risks and merits regarding use of the Site and should obtain relevant and specific professional advice before making any investment decisions.

The market analysis and similar information, including all statements of opinion and/or belief, contained in the documents accessible through this Site are subject to inherent uncertainties and qualifications and are based on a number of assumptions. There can be no guarantee that we will be successful in implementing our Change Capital strategy. You should carefully review the information provided regarding such analysis and assumptions. Only a selection of current and/or past investments have been highlighted on this Site and portfolio investments not highlighted here may have characteristics, prospects or returns that differ from those highlighted. For a complete list of all current and prior portfolio investments, please see kainoscapital.com/portfolio/.

Forward-Looking Statements
Certain information on this Site may contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of the date on which they are made. The words “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “optimistic”, “intend”, “aim”, “will”, or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of expected actions or future performance and future results may differ significantly from those anticipated by forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

No Warranties
We have compiled this Site in good faith and while we use reasonable efforts to include accurate and relevant information on this Site, the Site is provided on an “as is” basis with no warranties of any kind. We disclaim all representations and warranties, express or implied of any kind with respect to the Site, including warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property and proprietary rights. We do not warrant that the information on the Site is accurate, reliable, up-to-date or correct, that this Site will be available at any particular time or location, or that this Site is free of viruses or other harmful components. Without limiting the foregoing, we do not warrant the availability, accuracy, completeness, timeliness, functionality, reliability, speed or delivery of the Site or any part of the information contained in this Site. Your use of this Site and use or reliance upon any of the materials on it is solely at your own risk.

Modifications to Content
Kainos may, at its discretion, modify or discontinue any of the content of this Site, or any portion thereof, with or without notice.  While we make reasonable efforts to provide accurate information, at times we may not promptly update or correct the Site even if we are aware that it is inaccurate, outdated or otherwise inappropriate.  You agree that we are not responsible for any action that you take or decision you make in reliance on any information contained in the Site.

International Use
This Site is operated and controlled by us in the United States. Due to the global nature of the Internet, this Site may be accessed by users in countries other than the United States. We make no warranties that materials on this Site are appropriate or available for use in such locations. If it is illegal or prohibited in the country from which you are accessing the site to access or use this Site, then you should not do so. Those who choose to access this Site outside the United States do so on their own initiative and are responsible for compliance with all local laws and regulations.  In addition, information collected from users outside the United States may be transferred to the United States and other countries.

Ownership
All content included on this Site, such as graphics, logos, articles and other materials, is the property of Kainos or others and is protected by copyright and other laws. All trademarks and logos displayed on this Site are the property of their respective owners, who may or may not be affiliated with Kainos. Nothing contained on this Site should be construed as granting, by implication, estoppel, or otherwise, any license or right to use any content or trademark displayed on this Site without the written permission of Kainos or such other third party that may own the content or trademark displayed on this Site.

Restrictions on Use
Our prior permission is required for:  (i) any commercial use of materials on this Site; (ii) making more than minimal copies of Site materials; and (iii) copying large portions of our Site, such as by bots, robots or spiders that “harvest” the Site. You agree not to use, transfer, distribute or dispose of any information contained in the Site in any manner that could compete with the business of Kainos or its portfolio companies. You may not decompose, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or otherwise deconstruct all or any portion of this Site. You may not publish, broadcast, retransmit, reproduce, repackage, commercially exploit, create any derivative of or otherwise redistribute all or any portion of the Site except as explicitly permitted in these Legal Notices and Terms of Use. Any unauthorized use of the images on this Site may violate copyright laws, trademark laws, the laws of privacy and publicity, and communications regulations and statutes. Any unauthorized use of the images may violate copyright laws, trademark laws, the laws of privacy and publicity, and communications regulations and statutes.

You may not access the Site or use the information contained in the Site for any illegal purpose or in any manner inconsistent with these Legal Notices and Terms of Use.  You warrant that when using this Site you shall not violate or facilitate any violation of any applicable local, state, federal or international law, statute, regulation, code or ordinance, including, without limitation, rules or regulations promulgated by any national or other securities exchange. The permission to use this Site granted by this Legal Notices and Terms of Use automatically terminates if you breach any of the terms and conditions contained herein.

Limitation of Liability
We are not responsible for any damages or injury, including but not limited to special, indirect, incidental, consequential, special, exemplary, or punitive damages, or for any lost profits or losses, however caused, that result from your use of (or inability to use) this Site, including but not limited to any damages or injury caused by any failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, defect, delay in operation, computer virus, line failure, or other computer malfunction. Our liability is limited to the maximum extent permitted by law and is limited even if we have been advised of the possibility of the damages, liability or injury that you suffer or if any remedy you have fails of its essential purpose. You understand and agree that your use of this Site is predicated upon your waiver of any right to sue us or our affiliates directly or to participate in a suit for any losses or damages resulting from your use of this Site.

In exchange for using this Site, you agree to indemnify and hold Kainos, our agents, members, directors, officers and employees harmless against any and all claims, losses, liabilities, costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, attorneys’ fees) arising from your use of this Site or your violation of these Legal Notices and Terms of Use.

Termination
We may terminate your access to this Site for any reason, without prior notice.  These Legal Notices and Terms of Use shall survive any termination or expiration of your access to the Site.

Links from Other Websites
This Site may contain links to, or may be linked from, other websites that are operated by other entities and are not maintained by us and to which we have not provided permission. We do not endorse, have any control over or responsibility for, or make any representations or warranties about, any other websites, including their products and services, content, communications and website use policies. If you access any third party website through our Site or otherwise, you do so at your own risk. Hyperlinks to or from this Site do not constitute third party endorsement of, sponsorship by or affiliation with us. We expressly disclaim any responsibility for your access to or use of such other websites. We encourage you to review the privacy policies and user agreements of all other websites that you visit as such policies and agreements will govern your use of those websites.

Testimonial and Endorsement Disclosure
Testimonials and endorsements of operations team members, portfolio company executives and our partners are provided to demonstrate the benefits of working with the Kainos team. They are not provided to solicit investors in a Kainos fund. Some executives featured in these videos have an interest in a Kainos fund or a portfolio company. Operations team members and Kainos partners receive a salary and/or economics from Kainos and portfolio company executives receive a salary and economics from the respective portfolio company. No executives were paid for their testimonial or endorsement. There is a conflict of interest in these unpaid testimonials and endorsements in that all executives stand to benefit from Kainos’ success and for portfolio company executives specifically, their company is owned or partially owned by a Kainos fund.

Governing Law
You agree that your use of this Site and any disputes relating to the Site or the Legal Notices and Terms of Use shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Delaware.  Any dispute relating to the above shall be brought solely in the state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware and you expressly consent to the exercise of personal jurisdiction by and to venue in such courts for purposes of resolving such disputes.  You agree to bring any claim solely in your individual capacity and you expressly waive any right to bring any claim as part of a group or as a class action.

Severability
If any provision of the Legal Notices and Terms of Use is deemed unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision will be deemed severable from the Legal Notices and Terms of Use and will not affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions.

Comments Regarding Kainos
Comments provided by executives of portfolio companies or partners of the firm are provided to demonstrate the benefits of working with the Kainos team. They are not provided to solicit limited partners in a Kainos fund. Some individuals featured in the comments may also have an interest in a Kainos fund; such individuals’ comments are not offered on the basis of being an investor in a Kainos fund, but rather as an individual with experience working with the Kainos team.

