URL: https://greylion.com/terms-conditions
TITLE: GreyLion

BASE CONTENT:
================================================================================
Terms & Conditions

Terms of Use

These terms of use (the “Terms of Use”) constitute a legally binding agreement between GreyLion Partners LP (together with its affiliates, “GreyLion,” “our,” “us,” “we”) and you, the user of the GreyLion website (the “Site”). By accessing the Site, you acknowledge that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use. The Terms of Use govern your use of the Site. Please read the Terms of Use carefully. If you do not agree with the Terms of Use, please do not use the Site.

GreyLion reserves the right to amend the Terms of Use in its sole discretion at any time. GreyLion will post any changes to the Terms of Use on the Site, and changes shall be effective immediately upon posting. We recommend that you re-visit the Site on occasion to learn of any revised terms or policies. Your continued use of the Site after any such changes constitutes your acceptance of the new terms and policies.

Use of the Site

Your right to access and use the Site is limited solely for the purpose of evaluating a potential business relationship with GreyLion or for internal business purposes in furtherance of an existing business relationship with GreyLion. Without limiting the foregoing, as a condition of your right to access the Site under the Terms of Use, you acknowledge and agree that you shall not directly or indirectly:

·         Use the Site for any commercial purpose or for the benefit of any third party;

·         Frame or hyperlink the Site or any portion thereof without the prior written consent of GreyLion;

·         Remove any proprietary notices from the Site or any copy thereof;

·         Attempt to decompile, reverse engineer or hack the Site or to defeat or overcome any security measures, encryption and/or digital rights management technology implemented by GreyLion with respect to the Site and/or data transmitted, processed or stored by GreyLion; or

·         Use the Site for any illegal or fraudulent purpose.

Material to be Consulted in its Entirety

All materials in this Site are meant to be reviewed in their entirety, including any footnotes, legal disclaimers, restrictions or disclosures, and any copyright or proprietary notices. Any disclaimers, restrictions, disclosures or hedge clauses apply to any partial document or material in the same manner as they do to the whole and will be deemed incorporated in the portion of any material or document that you consult or download.

Regulatory Disclosures

GreyLion does not solicit or make its services available to the public. The content of this Site is for general, informational purposes. GreyLion does not make any representation or warranty of any kind, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained herein. Under no circumstances should the information presented be considered an offer to sell, or a solicitation to buy, any security. Such offer or solicitation may only be made pursuant to the current offering documents for the relevant GreyLion fund (the “Fund”) which may only be provided to accredited investors, as defined under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and qualified purchasers as defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or those investors who generally are sophisticated in financial matters, such that they are capable of evaluating the merits and risks of prospective investments. To the extent there are any inconsistencies between information on the Site and any of the Fund offering documents, the terms outlined in such documents shall prevail. Any decision to make an investment in a Fund should be based solely on the information in the Fund offering documents. While the information provided herein is believed to be accurate and reliable, GreyLion, its advisors and employees make no express warranty as to its completeness or accuracy.

Although the Site may include investment-related information, nothing on the Site is a recommendation that you purchase, sell or hold any security or other investment, or that you should pursue any investment strategy, and no information or contents on the Site is to be relied upon for the purpose of making or communicating investment or other decisions. Nothing on the Site is intended to be, and you should not consider anything on the Site to be, investment, accounting, tax, legal or other professional advice. In addition, you understand and agree that all content provided in connection with the Site is published without consideration of your individual circumstances, financial or otherwise.

The information provided on this Site may not be reproduced, distributed or communicated, in whole or in part, to any third party without the express written consent of GreyLion.

This Site includes information regarding GreyLion’s past and present portfolio companies. It should not be assumed that investments made in the future will be comparable in quality or performance to the investments described herein. Further, references to GreyLion’s past and present portfolio companies should not be construed as a recommendation of any particular investment or security. The portfolio companies listed should not be assumed to have been profitable. Any past performance information on the Site is not necessarily indicative, or a guarantee, of future results.

The Site may contain forward-looking statements (including those relating to current and future market conditions and trends in respect thereof) that are not historical facts and are based on current expectations, estimates, projections, opinions and/or beliefs of GreyLion. Such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, and undue reliance should not be placed thereon. In addition, no representation or warranty is made with respect to the reasonableness of any estimates, forecasts, illustrations, prospects or returns, which should be regarded as illustrative only, or that any profits will be realized. Actual events or results or actual performance of the relevant Fund (or any other entity referred to on the Site) may differ materially from those reflected or contemplated in such forward-looking statements. As a result, investors should not rely on such forward-looking statements in making their investment decisions. No representation or warranty is made as to future performance or such forward-looking statements.

This website contains prior investments by GreyLion and its predecessor and additional selected investments in which senior GreyLion team members played a significant role prior to joining GreyLion’s predecessor or prior to joining GreyLion from another firm. Other professionals who are not a part of GreyLion played a role in the investments comprising “Other Senior Team Experience,” and it is not purported that such data represents GreyLion’s prior experience as a team. Such data is provided for illustrative purposes only. Transaction data presented are as of the dates they occur. There can be no assurance that any pending transaction will be consummated at all or on the terms currently contemplated or that any future payouts will be obtained.

The awards and recognitions listed on the website are the opinion of the respective parties conferring the award or designation and not of GreyLion. No such person conferring any of the listed awards or designations is affiliated with GreyLion or is an investor in GreyLion-sponsored vehicles. Such awards do not include information on all applicable private equity funds available for investment or all vintages of such private equity funds and therefore are necessarily incomplete. In particular, the recognitions do not include the results of private equity funds that do not meet the specified investment strategy or other specified criteria, or that were raised prior to or subsequent to the cut-off dates specified in the criteria for such recognitions. Inclusion of such private equity funds could materially affect the relative positioning of the private equity firms shown in the recognitions. In addition, the recognitions make certain assumptions and weightings, and other assumptions or weightings could lead to materially different results. Because the methodologies of the recognitions are proprietary, it is not possible for a private equity firm to assess the universe of private funds included, including an assessment of whether such funds have investment programs or risk/return profiles similar to that of the funds managed by such firm. Use of other methodologies might lead to a private equity fund or firm being ranked in a materially different position. In addition, any recognition that represents an aggregate performance of any private equity firm’s funds, including but not limited to the above mentioned recognitions, is not necessarily indicative of any one investor’s experience. For the foregoing and other reasons, the recognitions may not be an appropriate measure by which to assess the performance of any private equity fund. Additional disclosure on individual awards is available https://www.greylion.com/awards-disclosure.

Videos by GreyLion contain the opinions of past and present GreyLion and portfolio company personnel. GreyLion makes no representation or warranty of any kind, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of the information in these videos. It should not be assumed that the portfolio companies discussed in these videos were profitable or that future portfolio companies or experiences will be comparable. Any past performance or historical trends are not necessarily indicative, or a guarantee, of future results. Under no circumstances should these videos be construed as an offer to sell, or a solicitation to buy, any security or as opinions regarding the provision of investment advisory services by GreyLion. Any titles as represented in the videos are a reflection of individual roles and work at the time of filming and not necessarily indicative of current or future positions. Portfolio companies as represented are reflections of GreyLion’s private equity portfolio at the time of filming and not necessarily representative of GreyLion’s current or future private equity portfolio. Branding of GreyLion’s private equity portfolio companies, including logos or other brand expressions, is a representation of such companies branding at the time of filming and is not necessarily indicative of current or future branding.

Risks You Assume

While we make reasonable efforts to provide accurate information, we may not promptly update or correct the Site even if we are aware that it is inaccurate, outdated or otherwise inappropriate. You agree that we are not responsible for any action that you take or decision you make in reliance on any information contained in the Site.

Links to Other Websites

This Agreement applies only to the Site and not to other websites that may be accessible from the Site and GreyLion shall not be responsible for the content of any third-party website accessible from the Site. Hyperlinks to or from the Site do not constitute third party endorsement of, sponsorship by or affiliation with GreyLion. GreyLion does not monitor, edit or control such third-party sites and is not responsible in any way for the suitability of their content or for the quality of the products or services offered therein. If you access any third-party website through the Site or otherwise, you do so at your own risk and we encourage you to review the privacy policies and user agreements of all other websites that you visit as such policies and agreements will govern your use of those websites. GreyLion reserves the right to terminate any link at any time.

Ownership

GreyLion owns and maintains this Site. No act of downloading or otherwise copying from this Site will transfer title to any software or material at this Site to you. Anything that you transmit to this Site becomes the property of GreyLion, may be used by GreyLion for any lawful purpose, and is further subject to disclosure as deemed appropriate by GreyLion, including to any legal or regulatory authority to which GreyLion is subject. GreyLion reserves all rights with respect to copyright ownership of all material at this Site and will enforce such rights to the full extent of the law.

The trade names, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos and other indicia of source (collectively, “Marks”) found on the Site and any and all information and content available through the Site, such as for example graphics, logos, articles and other materials are proprietary to GreyLion or its licensors and are protected by intellectual property rights and unfair competition and other laws. The Marks may be registered or unregistered trademarks of GreyLion or others. You may not use any Mark or contents of this Site without the express prior written permission of the owner (whether GreyLion or otherwise), and nothing contained in the Terms of Use or anywhere on the Site shall be construed as granting any license, permission or right to use any Mark or contents of this Site. Any unauthorized or prohibited use of the Marks or contents may subject the offender to civil and criminal liability under applicable law.

Disclaimer of Warranties

The materials in this Site are provided “as is” and “as available” without warranty of any kind, either express, implied, or statutory to the fullest extent permissible pursuant to applicable law with respect to this Site. GreyLion further assumes no responsibility for, and makes no warranties that functions contained at this Site will be available, accessible, uninterrupted, timely, secure, accurate, complete or error-free, that defects will be corrected, that the Site or the server that makes it available will be free of viruses or other harmful components, nor otherwise make warranties relating to quality, performance, non-infringement, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranties are created by course of dealing, course of performance or trade usage. GreyLion shall not be liable for any damages, viruses, or services, repairs or corrections that must be performed on your computer or other property on account of your accessing or using this Site. Please note that some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, so some or all of the above exclusions may not apply to you. You acknowledge that the entire risk arising out of the use or performance of the Site remains with you to the maximum extent permitted under law.

Limitation of Liability

GreyLion does not assume any liability or responsibility for the Site or the contents of this Site. GreyLion is not liable to you or anyone else for any claim of any nature whatsoever based on (1) the Site or its contents, including any decision made or action taken based on such contents or any feature of the Site or (2) your breach of any provision of the Terms of Use.

To the fullest extent not prohibited by law, GreyLion will not be liable for any damages or losses (including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special, punitive or exemplary damages, lost revenues, lost profits, loss of business, loss of data or any other damages or losses) arising out of or in connection with the Terms of Use or your use of any service or contents of this Site, regardless of the theory of liability, whether tort (including negligence of any kind), contract or any other legal or equitable theory, even if advised of the possibility of the damages or if the damages could have been foreseen.

Indemnity

To the fullest extent not prohibited by law, you agree that you will be solely responsible for, and that you will defend, indemnify and hold GreyLion, its parents, subsidiaries and other affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors, agents, employees and representatives harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liabilities, costs or expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, resulting from your use of the Site or your violation of the Terms of Use. GreyLion reserves the right, at its own expense, to assume the exclusive defense and control of any matter for which it is entitled to indemnification, but you must still indemnify GreyLion for all liabilities, losses or damages. You agree to provide GreyLion with whatever cooperation it reasonably requests.

Privacy

Your privacy is very important to us at GreyLion. To better protect your rights, we have provided the GreyLion Privacy Statement to explain our privacy practices in detail. Please refer to this https://www.greylion.com/privacy-policy.

International Use

GreyLion makes no representation that the use of the Site outside of the United States is appropriate or lawful. Accessing this Site from countries or territories where such access is illegal is prohibited. If you access this Site from outside of the United States, you do so at your own risk and agree to comply with all local rules and regulations regarding internet usage. GreyLion’s databases are located in the United States and if you provide us with any data, you consent to the transfer and storage of such data within the United States.

Termination

GreyLion may terminate your access to this Site at any time, for any reason and without notice.

Limitations on Time to File Claims

Any cause of action or claim you may have arising out of or relating to these Terms of Use or the Site must be commenced within one (1) year after the cause of action accrues, otherwise, such cause of action or claim is permanently barred, unless otherwise required by applicable law.

Miscellaneous

You may not assign or otherwise transfer these Terms of Use or your rights or obligations under it without GreyLion’s prior written consent, and any attempted assignment or other transfer in violation of this provision shall be null and void. GreyLion may assign these Terms of Use or any rights under these Terms of Use without your consent and without notice. Nothing in these Terms of Use may be used to construe you and GreyLion as joint venturers, co-employers, partners or agents of each other, and neither you nor GreyLion has the power to obligate or bind the other in any way whatsoever.

Should any term or provision hereof be deemed invalid, void or unenforceable either in its entirety or in a particular application, the remainder of the Terms of Use shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The failure of GreyLion at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect its right at a later time to enforce the same unless the same is waived in writing. The Terms of Use shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to its conflict of law rules. Any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to the Terms of Use against or relating to GreyLion or any indemnified party under the Terms of Use will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of any state or federal court sitting in the State of New York and you irrevocably consent to the jurisdiction of such courts. The terms and conditions set forth in the Terms of Use and any agreements included or referred to in the Terms of Use constitute the final, complete and exclusive agreement with respect to the Site and may not be contradicted, explained or supplemented by evidence of any prior agreement, any contemporaneous oral agreement or any consistent additional terms.

Headings and captions throughout the Terms of Use are for convenience only and should not be considered part of the Terms of Use. The word “including” means “including without limitation.”

If you have any questions or concerns about the Terms of Use or any issues raised in the Terms of Use or on the Site, please contact GreyLion at +1 (646) 475-3530.

