URL: https://rbequity.com/news
TITLE: Latest News and Press - Rockbridge Growth Equity

BASE CONTENT:
================================================================================
 Recent News and Portfolio Company Activity
FIND OUT MORE
June 5, 2024
Rockbridge Growth Equity Makes Significant Growth Investment in Vici Media

Investment Marks the Formation of Rockbridge’s New Digital Media Platform DETROIT, MI, June 5, 2024 – Rockbridge Growth Equity (“Rockbridge” or “the Firm”), a partnership-oriented middle market private equity firm with a differentiated approach to building and growing companies, today announced that it has made a majority investment in Vici Media Inc. (“Vici” or the “Company”), a provider of white label digital marketing and advertising solutions. The investment marks the formation of a new Rockbridge digital media platform, as the Firm looks to make additional investments in the industry. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.   Vici’s founder and...

READ MORE
November 29, 2023
White Glove and TouchFuse Announce Merger, Creating a Full-Service, Omni-Channel Marketing Services Company for Financial Advisors

The Combination of TouchFuse Businesses LeadJig, Prospectix and Acquire Direct with White Glove will Offer Advisors a One-Stop Shop of Both Traditional Direct Mail and Digital Media Troy, MI, and Tampa, FL, November 29, 2023 – White Glove and TouchFuse, which includes the LeadJig, Prospectix and Acquire Direct businesses, announced today the merger of the two companies, creating  a full-service, omni-channel marketing services company focused exclusively on financial advisors. Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed. White Glove is backed by Rockbridge Growth Equity (“Rockbridge”), a partnership-oriented middle market private equity firm with a differentiated approach to building and...

READ MORE
April 4, 2023
Marquis Acquires ZAG Interactive, a Provider of Website and Digital Marketing Services

PLANO, TX, April 4, 2023 – Marquis Software Solutions (“Marquis”), a Plano-based financial marketing and compliance software and services provider, today announced that it has acquired ZAG Interactive. Marquis is backed by Rockbridge Growth Equity (“Rockbridge”), a Detroit-based middle market private equity firm. Terms of the agreement were not disclosed. ZAG Interactive is a leading provider of website design and hosting services, search engine optimization, pay-per-click advertising, and social media management services. ZAG helps community banks and credit unions execute their strategies to increase customer acquisition, engagement, and participation. It has been recognized for its track record of helping clients realize...

READ MORE
January 30, 2023
Rockbridge Growth Equity 2022 Year in Review

Last year marked one of the most active in Rockbridge’s history, and we’re pleased to share with you our 2022 highlights. View Highlights...

READ MORE
October 21, 2022
Rockbridge-Backed CheckedUp Acquires Health Media Network

NEW YORK, NY, October 21, 2022 –  CheckedUp (or the “Company”), one of the leading providers of 100% digital healthcare solutions at the point of care, announced today that it has acquired Health Media Network (“HMN”), a provider of digital healthcare solutions and wellness content to health venues across the country. Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed. CheckedUp is backed by Rockbridge Growth Equity (“Rockbridge”), a partnership-oriented middle market private equity firm with a differentiated approach to building and growing companies. The transaction brings together two of the largest companies in the digital-out-of-home point of care space, changing...

READ MORE
October 5, 2022
Rockbridge Growth Equity Named to Inc.’s 2022 List of Founder-Friendly Investors

Detroit, Michigan, October 5, 2022 – Rockbridge Growth Equity, a partnership-oriented middle market private equity firm with a differentiated approach to building and growing companies, today announced that it has been named to Inc.’s 2022 Founder-Friendly Investors list, honoring the private equity and venture capital firms with records of success backing entrepreneurs. The final list recognizes investment firms that entrepreneurs collaborate with and trust as they receive the financial support they need to help drive growth. All the firms on the list have remained actively involved with the businesses they invest in for at least one year post-investment. “We are...

READ MORE
September 15, 2022
Rockbridge Growth Equity Makes Strategic Investment in The Nest Schools, a Leader in Premium Early Childhood Education

DETROIT, MI, September 15, 2022 – Rockbridge Growth Equity (“Rockbridge”), a partnership-oriented middle market private equity firm with a differentiated approach to building and growing companies, announced today that it has made a strategic investment in The Nest Schools (“Nest” or the “Company”), an operator of 36 early childhood education centers across Ohio, North Carolina, Texas, Florida and Virginia. Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed. Gerry Pastor and Jane Porterfield, Nest’s Co-Founders and Co-CEOs, will continue to lead the Company and implement their differentiated operational playbook with the support of Rockbridge. Mr. Pastor and Ms. Porterfield have decades of...

READ MORE
September 8, 2022
Rockbridge Growth Equity Sells Kings III of America

DETROIT, MI, September 6, 2022 – Rockbridge Growth Equity (“Rockbridge”), a partnership-oriented middle market private equity firm with a differentiated approach to building and growing companies, announced today that it has sold Kings III of America (“Kings III” or “the Company”), a leading third-party provider of elevator and pool emergency monitoring solutions across North America, to Arcline Investment Management. Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed. “We’re pleased with this terrific outcome, which is a result of executing on the value creation plan we developed with management at the time of our initial investment,” said Steve Linden, Partner of...

READ MORE
January 5, 2022
CheckedUp Receives Significant Investment from Rockbridge Growth Equity to Support Growth Initiatives

DETROIT, Jan. 5, 2022 /PRNewswire/ — Rockbridge Growth Equity, a Detroit-based private equity firm, today announced an investment in digital out-of-home point of care provider, CheckedUp, a leading provider of 100% digital healthcare solutions at the point of care. The transaction will enable the firm’s executive team to pursue strategic growth initiatives, further invest in technology innovation, and expand CheckedUp’s reach in key markets. Physician-founded by ophthalmologist Dr. Richard Awdeh and Mark Awdeh in 2012, CheckedUp is a 100% digital healthcare technology solutions company that supports treatment decisions by healthcare providers and patients across the U.S. through company-provided digital technologies – including waiting room displays and interactive digital wallboards. CheckedUp’s technology transmits...

READ MORE
November 30, 2021
Rockbridge Growth Equity Acquires Stake in Marquis Software Solutions

Detroit, MI, November 30, 2021 – Rockbridge Growth Equity, a Detroit-based private equity firm, today announced it has acquired Marquis Software Solutions from Falfurrias Capital Partners. Marquis is a leader in unique data analytics software and services that help financial institutions, primarily mid-tier banks and credit unions, identify marketing opportunities and meet complex and ever-evolving compliance requirements. “We have developed a portfolio specialty in marketing and financial services, and Marquis is an incredible addition to that group,” said Kevin Prokop, Managing Partner at Rockbridge. “Susan Faulkner and her team have built a market-leading company with a broad portfolio of marketing...

READ MORE
October 14, 2021
Rockbridge Growth Equity Acquires Protect Environmental

Detroit, MI, October 14, 2021 – Louisville-based Protect Environmental, a leader in the environmental consulting and remediation industry, with a focus on radon and chemical vapor intrusion management, today announced that it has been acquired by Rockbridge Growth Equity, the Detroit-based private equity firm. This acquisition is part of a series of investments by Rockbridge related to its national environmental services platform, currently operating as RB Home Services. The platform provides property owners and developers, lenders, real estate professionals and home inspectors, and other related stakeholder groups across the country a national network of trusted professionals to tackle common issues...

READ MORE
October 5, 2021
He Turned Down a Bigger Offer From Another Investor. The Result Was 6-Times Revenue Growth

Abuv Media founder Doug Jones attributes much of his company’s success to its hands-on–but not too hands-on–relationship with Rockbridge Growth Equity. By Graham Winfrey, Features Editor, Inc. Doug Jones was just two years into his first startup when he got a cold call from Kevin Prokop, co-founder and managing partner of Detroit-based private equity firm Rockbridge Growth Equity. Jones’s content marketing company, Abuv Media, helped online universities identify prospective students, and its more than 50 percent year-over-year growth since it was launched in 2012 had caught Prokop’s attention. Rockbridge had begun as the private equity investment arm of Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert’s family office....

READ MORE
View More News

