URL: https://rbequity.com/terms-of-use
TITLE: Terms of Use - Rockbridge Growth Equity

BASE CONTENT:
================================================================================
Terms of Use

Visitors To The Rockbridge Growth Equity Website Are Requested To Read The Following:

Thank you for visiting the website of Rockbridge Growth Equity (“Rockbridge”). By accessing this website, you acknowledge and agree to accept the following terms and conditions of use (“Terms of Use”), which may be updated by Rockbridge at any time. Any updates to the Terms of Use will be posted here, and are effective upon posting. As Rockbridge is under no obligation to alert the users of its website to such updates, you should consult this Terms of Use page each time you visit the website.

If you have any questions or comments about the Terms of Use, please contact us at info@rbequity.com and (313) 373-7000.

1. Use of Website and Content

All content and information, and all trademarks, logos, copyrights and other intellectual property displayed on the website is owned by Rockbridge or others. By visiting this website you agree to not use any website content commercially, forward it as a mass distribution, post it on another site, or otherwise copy, distribute, download or modify any portion of it without advance permission. Other trademarks, service marks, images and logos may be owned by other parties, who may or may not be affiliated with Rockbridge. Nothing on this website shall be interpreted as granting, by implication, estoppel or otherwise, any license or right to use any content on this website without the written permission of Rockbridge or such other third party that may own such content. All rights not expressly granted are reserved.

2. Investment Disclaimers

Rockbridge is an investment adviser registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Registration of an investment adviser with the SEC does not imply a certain level of skill or training.

All information contained on this website, including any transaction described therein, is for informational and/or illustrative purposes only. Statements contained on this website that are not historical facts are based on current views, forward-looking expectations, estimates, projections, opinions and/or beliefs of the Rockbridge team. Such statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors. You should not rely on these statements as if they were facts.

The investments and strategies discussed throughout the website may not be suitable for all investors and are not obligations of or guaranteed by Rockbridge or any of its affiliates. Nothing on this website is to be construed as a solicitation to offer investment advice or services. Information about investing in Rockbridge funds is only available in the form of private placement memoranda and other offering documents. These documents contain information to help investors evaluate Rockbridge funds’ investment objectives, risks, fees and expenses, among other factors, before considering an investment. By using this website, you agree that Rockbridge is not liable for any action you take or decision you make in reliance on any website content. Further information about Rockbridge is also available in Rockbridge’s Form ADV Part 2, filed with the SEC.

Past performance is not necessarily indicative, nor a guarantee, of future results and no representation is made that any fund will or is likely to achieve results that are similar to those of Rockbridge’s or its principals’ current or previous funds. Prior investments may have been made under different market, economic or other conditions than those in which future investments and/or strategies will be pursued, and as a result may not be replicated. Investors may lose part or all of their investment capital or face various other risks as described in the applicable offering documents.

Rockbridge was founded in 2007 as predecessor entity Rockbridge Growth Equity, LLC by Daniel Gilbert, Brian Hermelin and Kevin Prokop to serve as a private equity firm affiliated with Rock Holdings Inc., the holding company for Rocket (NYSE: RKT) and other companies owned by Mr. Gilbert (the Family of Companies, or “FOC”). The list of FOC companies include companies in addition to those in the Rockbridge portfolio.

Details on selected investment have been included for illustrative purposes only and have been selected in order to provide examples of the types of investments previously made by Rockbridge and do not purport to be a complete list of investments. A complete list of prior Rockbridge investments is on the “Portfolio” page.

Testimonials and endorsements presented herein reflect Rockbridge’s and portfolio company management’s opinions and beliefs regarding the company and the investment. Such opinions and beliefs are subjective, do not represent a complete assessment of the company, the market or Rockbridge’s overall investment performance and cannot be independently verified. Such statements are being offered as references for purposes of demonstrating the benefits of working with the Rockbridge team and not on the basis of being an investor in a portfolio company or, if applicable, a Rockbridge fund. Portfolio company executives receive/received a salary and economics from the portfolio company. No executives were paid for their testimonial or endorsement. There is a conflict of interest in these unpaid testimonials and endorsements in that all speakers stand to benefit from Rockbridge’s success and for the portfolio company executives specially, their company is owned or partially owned by a Rockbridge fund.

Industry Experts and members of the Portfolio Resources Group provide expertise to Rockbridge and its portfolio companies and may have business or investment activities unrelated to Rockbridge. These executives are compensated by either a fund or a portfolio company.

The “Founder-Friendly Investors” award is a program designed by Inc. Magazine to help founder-led companies accelerate growth and create revenue. Inc. Magazine is not affiliated with Rockbridge. Private equity and venture capital firms that have exited U.S.-based, founder-led portfolio companies are eligible to apply. For investments to qualify, portfolio company founders must have remained actively involved in their business for at least one year post-investment. Winning firms are selected based upon their track record, reputation, leadership and founder references. Rockbridge is not aware of the number of advisers also surveyed for the award. Like all entrants, Rockbridge paid a fee to be considered for this award. This award is not to be construed as indicative of Rockbridge’s future performance. Reference to an award is only one piece of information relevant to an evaluation of an investment adviser such as Rockbridge. This ranking should not be construed as a testimonial regarding Rockbridge’s advisory capabilities and does not necessarily relate to the profitability or performance of its funds. Finally, this award represents information as of a specific date and time and may not reflect important information related to an evaluation of the investment adviser which has occurred prior to, or subsequent to, the award. Rockbridge received this award in 2022 and 2021.

3. Linked Sites and Third-Party Information

Certain links, including links to portfolio company websites, are provided on this website. These links are provided as a convenience and do not imply Rockbridge’s sponsorship or approval of any of these websites or their content. Rockbridge has no control over or responsibility for other websites that may be accessible from this website, the contents thereof, their security or privacy policies or any products/services that may be offered by them. If you access any third-party website through this website or because it is referred to in this website, you do so at your own risk. Links to or from this website do not constitute an endorsement by Rockbridge of the parties or businesses which are so linked, nor do they necessarily indicate any affiliation between us and such parties or businesses. Rockbridge encourages you to review the privacy policies and user agreements of all other websites that you visit as such policies and agreements will govern your use of those websites.

4. Representations and Limitations of Liability

All website content is provided “as is” and “as available.” Rockbridge makes no representations about the reliability of the website, its content or any other website features. Rockbridge and its affiliates disclaim all liability in the event of claims, losses or damages arising out of or in connection with any access, use or distribution of the website. Rockbridge, its affiliates and their respective officers, directors, managers, partners, members, shareholders, employees, affiliates and agents are not responsible for any damages or injury, including but not limited to special, indirect, incidental or consequential damages, that result from your use of (or inability to use) this website, including any damages or injury caused by any failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, defect, delay in operation, computer virus, line failure, or other computer malfunction. You understand and agree that your use of this website is predicated upon your waiver of any right to sue us or our affiliates or any of our or their respective officers, directors, managers, partners, members, shareholders, employees, affiliates and agents directly or to participate in a suit for any losses or damages resulting from your use of this site.

5. Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Severability

These Terms of Use will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Michigan without regard to conflicts of laws principles. By using this website, you hereby agree that any and all disputes regarding these Terms of Use will be subject to the courts located in Detroit, Michigan, and you hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction of such courts for the purposes of any such dispute or action. You must commence any cause of action you may have with respect to your use of this website within one year after the claim or cause of action arises or such claim or cause of action will be deemed to have been waived. If any provision of these Terms of Use shall be unlawful, void or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision shall be deemed severable from these Terms of Use and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining provisions. The failure of Rockbridge to enforce the strict performance of any provision of these Terms of Use shall not be a waiver by Rockbridge of its right to subsequently enforce such provision or any other provision or provisions of these Terms of Use.

